.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :hidden:


.. _bigmler-delete:

Delete subcommand
-----------------

You have seen that BigMLer is an agile tool that empowers you to create a
great number of resources easily. This is a tremedous help, but it also can
lead to a garbage-prone environment. To keep a control of each new created
remote resource use the flag `--resources-log` followed by the name of the log
file you choose.

.. code-block:: bash

    bigmler --train data/iris.csv --resources-log my_log.log

Each new resource created by that command will cause its id to be appended as
a new line of the log file.

BigMLer can help you as well in deleting these resources. Using the `delete`
subcommand there are many options available. For instance, deleting a
comma-separated list of ids

.. code-block:: bash

    bigmler delete \
            --ids source/50a2bb64035d0706db0006cc,dataset/50a1f441035d0706d9000371

deleting resources listed in a file

.. code-block:: bash

    bigmler delete --from-file to_delete.log

where `to_delete.log` contains a resource id per line.

As we've previously seen, each BigMLer command execution generates a
bunch of remote resources whose ids are stored in files located in a directory
that can be set using the ``--output-dir`` option. The
``bigmler delete`` subcommand can retrieve the ids stored in such files by
using the ``--from-dir`` option.


.. code-block:: bash

    bigmler --train data/iris.csv --output my_BigMLer_output_dir
    bigmler delete --from-dir my_BigMLer_output_dir

The last command will delete all the remote resources previously generated by
the fist command by retrieving their ids from the files in
``my_BigMLer_output_dir`` directory.

You can also delete resources based on the tags they are associated to

.. code-block:: bash

    bigmler delete --all-tag my_tag

or restricting the operation to a specific type

.. code-block:: bash

    bigmler delete --source-tag my_tag
    bigmler delete --dataset-tag my_tag
    bigmler delete --model-tag my_tag
    bigmler delete --prediction-tag my_tag
    bigmler delete --evaluation-tag my_tag
    bigmler delete --ensemble-tag my_tag
    bigmler delete --batch-prediction-tag my_tag
    bigmler delete --cluster-tag my_tag
    bigmler delete --centroid-tag my_tag
    bigmler delete --batch-centroid-tag my_tag
    bigmler delete --anomaly-tag my_tag
    bigmler delete --anomaly-score-tag my_tag
    bigmler delete --batch-anomaly-score-tag my_tag
    bigmler delete --project-tag my_tag
    bigmler delete --logistic-regression-tag my_tag
    bigmler delete --linear-regression-tag my_tag
    bigmler delete --time-series-tag my_tag
    bigmler delete --deepnet-tag my_tag
    bigmler delete --topic-model-tag my_tag
    bigmler delete --topic-distribution-tag my_tag
    bigmler delete --association-tag my_tag


You can also delete resources by date. The options ``--newer-than`` and
``--older-than`` let you specify a reference date. Resources created after and
before that date respectively, will be deleted. Both options can be combined to
set a range of dates. The allowed values are:

- dates in a YYYY-MM-DD format
- integers, that will be interpreted as number of days before now
- resource id, the creation datetime of the resource will be used

Thus,


.. code-block:: bash

    bigmler delete --newer-than 2

will delete all resources created less than two days ago (now being
2014-03-23 14:00:00.00000, its creation time will be greater
than 2014-03-21 14:00:00.00000).

.. code-block:: bash

    bigmler delete --older-than 2014-03-20 --newer-than 2014-03-19

will delete all resources created during 2014, March the 19th (creation time
between 2014-03-19 00:00:00 and 2014-03-20 00:00:00) and


.. code-block:: bash

    bigmler delete --newer-than source/532db2b637203f3f1a000104

will delete all resources created after the ``source/532db2b637203f3f1a000104``
was created.

You can also combine both types of options, to delete sources tagged as
``my_tag`` starting from a certain date on

.. code-block:: bash

    bigmler delete --newer-than 2 --source-tag my_tag

And finally, you can filter the type of resource to be deleted using the
``--resource-types`` option to specify a comma-separated list of resource
types to be deleted

.. code-block:: bash

    bigmler delete --older-than 2 --resource-types source,model

will delete the sources and models created more than two days ago.

Additionally, you can use the ``--resource-types`` option to tell which
type of resources to exclude from deletion if the ``--exclude-types`` flag
is added to the call.

.. code-block:: bash

    bigmler delete --older-than 2 --resource-types source,model --exclude-types

That command will delete all the resources that are older than two days except
for sources and models.

You can simulate the a delete subcommand using the ``--dry-run``
flag

.. code-block:: bash

    bigmler delete --newer-than source/532db2b637203f3f1a000104 \
                   --source-tag my_source --dry-run

The output for the command will be a list of resources that would be deleted
if the ``--dry-run`` flag was removed. In this case, they will be sources
that contain the tag ``my_source`` and were created after the one given as
``--newer-than`` value. The first 15 resources will be logged
to console, and the complete list can be found in the ``bigmler_sessions``
file.

A similar option that does not delete the resources immediately is ``--bin``.

.. code-block:: bash

    bigmler delete --newer-than 3 --resource-types source \
                   --source-tag my_source --bin

By setting that flag, all the selected resources are moved to a newly
created ``Trash bin`` project in your account. That allows the user to
inspect the selected resources before deletion and delete them in an efficient
way by deleting the ``Trash bin`` project.

By default, only finished resources are selected to be deleted. If you want
to delete other resources, you can select them by choosing their status:

.. code-block:: bash

    bigmler delete --older-than 2 --status faulty

would remove all failed resources created more than two days ago.

Also, you can apply a filter based on the filters used in the API list
query strings (see the `API documentation <https://bigml.com/api>`_).


.. code-block:: bash

    bigmler delete --filter "name__icontains=iris"


Delete Subcommand Options
-------------------------

===================================== =========================================
``--ids`` *LIST_OF_IDS*               Comma separated list of ids to be deleted
``--from-file`` *FILE_OF_IDS*         Path to a file containing the resources'
                                      ids to be deleted
``--from-dir``                        Path to a directory where BigMLer has
                                      stored
                                      its session data and created resources
``--all-tag`` *TAG*                   Retrieves resources that were tagged
                                      with tag
                                      to delete them
``--source-tag`` *TAG*                Retrieves sources that were tagged
                                      with tag to
                                      delete them
``--dataset-tag`` *TAG*               Retrieves datasets that were tagged
                                      with tag to
                                      delete them
``--model-tag`` *TAG*                 Retrieves models that were tagged
                                      with tag to
                                      delete them
``--prediction-tag`` *TAG*            Retrieves predictions that were tagged
                                      with tag
                                      to delete them
``--evaluation-tag`` *TAG*            Retrieves evaluations that were tagged
                                      with tag
                                      to delete them
``--ensemble-tag`` *TAG*              Retrieves ensembles that were tagged
                                      with tag
                                      to delete them
``--batch-prediction-tag`` *TAG*      Retrieves batch predictions that
                                      were tagged
                                      with tag to delete them
``--cluster-tag`` *TAG*               Retrieves clusters that were tagged with
                                      tag to delete them
``--centroid-tag`` *TAG*              Retrieves centroids that were tagged with
                                      tag to delete them
``--batch-centroid-tag`` *TAG*        Retrieves batch centroids that were
                                      tagged with
                                      tag to delete them
``--anomaly-tag`` *TAG*               Retrieves anomalies that were tagged with
                                      tag to delete them
``--anomaly-score-tag`` *TAG*         Retrieves anomaly scores that were
                                      tagged with
                                      tag to delete them
``--batch-anomlay-score-tag`` *TAG*   Retrieves batch anomaly scores that were
                                      tagged with tag to delete them
``--logistic-regression-tag`` *TAG*   Retrieves logistic regressions
                                      that were tagged with
                                      tag to delete them
``--linear-regression-tag`` *TAG*     Retrieves linear regressions
                                      that were tagged with
                                      tag to delete them
``--topic-model-tag`` *TAG*           Retrieves topic models that were tagged
                                      with tag to delete them
``--topic-distribution-tag`` *TAG*    Retrieves topic distributions that were
                                      tagged with
                                      tag to delete them
``--batch-topic-distribution-tag`` *TAG*   Retrieves batch topic distributions
                                           that were
                                           tagged with tag to delete them
``--time-series-tag`` *TAG*           Retrieves time series that were tagged
                                      with tag to delete them
``--forecast-tag`` *TAG*              Retrieves forecasts that were
                                      tagged with
                                      tag to delete them
``--deepnet-tag`` *TAG*               Retrieves deepnets that were tagged
                                      with tag to delete them
``--project`` *TAG*                   Retrieves projects that were
                                      tagged with tag to delete them
``--association`` *TAG*               Retrieves associations that were
                                      tagged with tag to delete them
``--older-than`` *DATE*               Retrieves resources created before the
                                      specified
                                      date. Date can be any YYYY-MM-DD string,
                                      an
                                      integer meaning the number of days
                                      before the
                                      current datetime or a resource id,
                                      meaning the
                                      creation datetime of the resource
``--newer-than`` *DATE*               Retrieves resources created after the
                                      specified
                                      date. Date can be any YYYY-MM-DD string,
                                      an
                                      integer meaning the number of days
                                      before the
                                      current datetime or a resource id,
                                      meaning the
                                      creation datetime of the resource
``--resource-types``                  Comma-separated list of types of
                                      resources to
                                      be deleted. Allowed values are source,
                                      dataset,
                                      model, ensemble, prediction,
                                      batch_prediction,
                                      cluster, centroid, batch_centroid, etc.
``--exclude-types``                   When used together with
                                      ``resource-types``, the list of types
                                      provided will be excluded from deletion.
                                      Only the rest of resource types will be
                                      deleted.
``--filter`` *FILTER EXPRESSION*      Filter expression as used in the API
                                      list calls query string
``--dry-run``                         Delete simulation. No removal.
``--status``                          Status codes used in the filter to
                                      retrieved the resources to be delete. The
                                      possible values are: finished, faulty,
                                      waiting, queued, started, in progress,
                                      summarized, uploading, unknown, runnable
===================================== =========================================



.. _bigmler-export:

Export subcommand
-----------------


The ``bigmler export`` subcommand is intended to help generating the code
needed for the models in BigML to be integrated in other applications.
To produce a prediction using a BigML model you just need a function that
receives as argument the new test
case data and returns this prediction (and a confidence). The `bigmler export`
subcommand will retrieve the JSON information of your existing
decision tree model in BigML and will generate from it this function code and
store it in a file that can be imported or copied directly in your application.

Obviously, the function syntax will depend on the model and the language
used in your application, so these will be the options we need to provide:

.. code-block:: bash

    bigmler export --model model/532db2b637203f3f1a001304 \
                   --language javascript --output-dir my_exports

This command will create a javascript version of the function that
produces the predictions and store it in a file named
`model_532db2b637203f3f1a001304.js` (after the model
ID) in the `my_exports` directory.

Models can currently exported in `Python`, `Javascript` and `R`. For models
whose fields are numeric or categorical, the command
also supports creating `MySQL` functions and `Tableau` separate expressions
for both the prediction and the confidence.

You can also generate the code for all the models in an ensemble in a
single bigmler export command using the `--ensemble` option followed
by the corresponding ensemble ID. The code for
each model will be stored in a separate file, named after the model ID and
transforming the slash into an underscore.

.. code-block:: bash

    bigmler export --ensemble ensemble/532db2b637203f3f1a001307 \
                   --language javascript --output-dir my_ensemble
